# Game design review -> How KCD makes realism fun
Realism is a very thin edge to walk. Most of us play video games to escape grim and boring reality, and even so we sometimes do love weird meditative stuff - like cleaning houses or working at the kiosk - it never should be a routine. That's precisely the reason why, while being praised for its realism, the game isn't all that realistic per se. 

---
Our main protagonist Henry (or Indrich, depending on the language you've played) is very needy in terms of sleep and food - so much so, it even [became a meme](). Hunger is mild stamina debuff (unless you've starved yourself to death), as well as overeating - you can't just stuff yourself full! But at the same time food is very cheap and easily accessible, every proper sleep place usually has a pot full of nutritious soup, and every poor bandit on the road have dried fruits in their pockets. So it's not that kind of hunger that drives you mad in survival games, where you are forced to hunt all day just to make a living and blocked to progress further. On the contrary, food is a good little mechanic: there is a perk that gives you pretty substantial bonuses for being well-fed. And while NPC couldn't die from hunger, they most certainly eat regularly, which you can take to your advantage by poisoning the enemy camp. And I'm not even talking about economy gains you get from hunting rabbits in the forest!  
It follows a simple DnD style rule: rules should impose limitation for a very good reason, be consistent, and reward gracefully for creativeness. And if consequences of a rule is strictly negative are not fun, you probably have to just drop the rule entirely. For example, healing from near death experience by a 8 hours sleep is not very realistic, but hey, it's an action RPG after all! And it solves problems: you restore health only on your own bed, so you can't abuse a time-skip mechanic to restore health (as in Oblivion), or on the other end of the spectrum, necessity to lay out a bunch of healing potions in the level at random. And, obviously, figure out a way to invent a lore accurate healing potion in the medieval setting in the first place. Or you could chose a perk and get bonuses from uncomfortable beds - but those won't get you healed or saved. Limitations are the key!
I once had saved the game before knight tourney (which required to drink a saving schamps, which is an alcohol), and then had drunk some battle potion (fuck you, I am a cheater!), and also had to drink a beer (because I was hungry, I didn't want to stat debuff, and beer was the only "food" I had). Little did I know about hangover! So I had slashed the first opponent filling pretty good, until alcohol buff ended and hangover took it place. So here I was, with screen literally shaking against the strongest opponent yet. 
Could this situation have happened if not *stupid* save/drinkig/hunger mechanics? 
And drinking! Up to the halfway point of the buff, your Strength, Speech, Vitality and Charisma increase up to a maximum of +2 (which is very good for an early game, it's an equivalent of roughly 8 levels), until, of course, you get a hangover debuff. And you can mitigate this in many different ways: you can learn a perk to not get drunk so fast, or in contrary, to sober faster. Or you could always just keep drinking (but we aware, you can become a drunker!) 
Nearly every skill in this game is tradeoff: you can get faster but with less stamina. You can be stronger but dumber, or dumber but stronger. You could have a charisma bonus with female when are you dirty (don't ask how this works), but, well, you will be dirty for males too.
